So my name is Melanie Doucet,
and I work at Birchmount , school,
and I teach grades
seven and eight immersion.
So I'm going to talk
about the different types of,
menu that I have for kids
to have choices in my class.
So they have a system in place
now that it's like work of the week.
I teach. It
depends on how many classes I teach in.
So it could go to, like it's all week.
We have the do you have the choice
to what they're going to be working on.
So if I teach in science class
or social study,
they could have groups working on Sundays
and other groups working on social study
or other groups working on science.
Then the of what the work I give them.
It's easy way also to do cross-curricular.
So I have project going on
that are both at the same time
could be French and social study.
It could be social study and science,
or be working with other teachers
and completing their class in there.
So what I do is that they have
this amount of work that they have to do,
and it just has to be finished
for the end of the week.
So it gives them independence,
even if it's not as much exciting,
just because they can choose
which one they can do first.
Often it's it gets them more on
task and going and knowing too, that
this has to be done at the end of the day,
at the end of the week.
Makes them more accountable
also for the work and also the I will
give them like free time on the Friday
if they're all their work is done.
So they also have a reward
if they're finishing
and if they're not finished, well,
it's homework or it's work
that they have to under the time
on their own that they have their own me,
that they have to finish their work,
they also in there have the choice
to have different projects inside of that.
So example,
if they all have to do a science project
about information about,
I don't know, a career in science.
They have different choices
to way to present sometimes.
So they could have a writing.
They could have a video.
They could have
I want a comic scrap or different ways
to present the same information.
So they also have different choices.
Like that's not always the case.
I do recommend that if you're
giving choices that you don't, do
too complicated things
so that you don't get overwhelmed
to have to, guide teacher
the students all the time.
So example, you might give 2 or 3 things
that are more independent
and then one choice that might need more
hands on from you with the students.
I didn't start this, like all,
all or nothing kind of goal.
I started a little bit at a time.
I started a few years back
when I was teaching art
to a different class,
a difficult management class.
So what I've given them was,
they had, like, eight
different project of art they could do
that, had the different goals they wanted,
and they could choose, four, and
they had to have finished up in six weeks.
And that really helped manage
that behavior class.
That was very hard
that everybody's having trouble with.
And I had zero behavior issue.
So then I slowly started to put that
in all of my other classes.
But I didn't do it like all or nothing
kind of thing.
It was a little bit at a time.
Maybe they had choices for some projects,
maybe they had process
for 4 or 5 weeks,
or maybe it was like a slow process.
Now I do it all the time, like it's
like money, like 99% of the time.
That's what I'm doing. But I wouldn't.
You can start it slowly.
You can start it for a week.
You can start it for for a few of days,
maybe three days a week
or something like that.
It doesn't have to be all or nothing.
Also, to help out
too, is the system of organization.
I find that,
you get a lot of different things
at the same time
so that what could get overwhelm I use
now I use team
and I use it, for everything.
In a sense, it's one place assignments
and all of their assignment in this paper
or in anything, they have to take a photo
and put it there also.
So that way I know where to look
because it can get
because they're not working
on the same thing at the same time.
Who's done who's not done
something that I used to do it paper wise,
but you have to have a system of checks
and stuff like that,
and you also have to have a system
in place that they all put it
at the same spot and don't give it to you
like 5 or 10 different ways,
because then you get confused